How To Get The National Numbering Plan Data
--

Data Source:
https://www.ncc.gov.ng/operators/national-numbering-plan

The Challenge:
Although you can click on a link (different page from above) to download the numbering plan, at the time of writing it links to an outdated document.

The current plan is shown on this page as a paged table, so the workaround is to copy and paste, navigate to next page, rinse and repeat.

Data Scraping Steps:
1. Set entries per page to the max (100)
2. Copy and paste data from each page into a spreadsheet
3. IMPORTANT - in the text import dialog make sure you set the Type of all non-natural-number fields to Text
4. Repeat steps 1-3 for all pages (currently there are 4 pages)
5. Then filter and sort spreadsheet to get list of unique Network Codes and Telcos
6. Save the Numbering Plan, the Network Codes and Telcos lists as separate CSV files
7. However, these CSVs do not tell us the withdrawn, unallocated ranges etc (they only show allocated ranges, we need that data to be robust)
8. We can get that data from https://www.ncc.gov.ng/operators/mobile-number-allocation-table
9. This shows us the  SharedVAS, Unassigned, Withdrawn, Returned,, Available, Reserved
10. Though in our code we also include the catch-all case of "Unknown" in our Telco enum
9. Okay, so save the page as a pdf (see Mobile Number Allocation Table _ NCC.pdf)
10. We now have the detailed number allocations (from earlier manual scraping), and the excluded ranges (from pdf we just saved)
11. This will allow us to exclude many of the Telcos in our filtered spreadsheet list because they only have allocations in for shared VAS (700-range) or toll free (800-range) i.e. not real mobile numbers

Tips:
- When filtering in spreadsheet, start with "National" Area Code, because at the moment, this represents ONLY mobile access codes, shared VAS (700), and special services (800).
- A visual summary of mobile allocations (very useful for checking your code) can be found at https://www.ncc.gov.ng/operators/mobile-number-allocation-table
- The links to the aforementioned outdated docs can be found at https://www.ncc.gov.ng/industry/numbering-type-approval/national-numbering

Data Loading Steps:
- Get an LLM to amend the code in both the library and test suite using the lastest CSV data.
- Prompt carefully to ensure the nuances above are not lost, otherwise this is a whole other discussion, but do that and then...
- Manually check the changes.
- Run tests (some may need to change as well).

TODO:
- Need to set up automated monitoring of NCC pages to check for changes.